Title: Dhan Vapsi Passbook

Tags: DhanVapsiPassbook P20180436101

Summary: This law has been written to stop the loot of the country's minerals. Immediately after this proposed law is published in the gadget, all the mineral and natural resources under the control of the Government of India will be declared the property of the citizens of the country, and within 30 days each voter will get a Dhanvaapsi Passbook. 

Then the royalty and rent from all the minerals + spectrum + government land of the country will be deposited in a bank account called "Joint Account of 135 crore Indians". 65% of this amount collected will be distributed equally among all Indians and 35% will go to army account. Entry of the amount of money in every Indian's share will come in the Dhanvapsi Passbook. 

The National Mineral Royalty Officer collecting money by auctioning the minerals will be in the Dhanvapsi Passbook and citizens will be able to go to the Collector's office and give their approval for the removal of the NMRO officer from the job. If there is any complaint of scam or any other complaint against the mineral officer or his staff, then the power to hear and give punishment will not be with the judge but with the jury of ordinary citizens. This law prohibits the sale of all mines in the country. There is no need to pass this law from Parliament. The Prime Minister can print it directly in the gadget.

Action: If you support this law, send a postcard to the PM. Write this in the postcard - "Prime Minister, please print the proposed Dhanvapsi passbook law in the gadget #DhanVapsiPassbook , #P20180436101"

Comment: This draft has two parts - (I) General instructions for citizens, (II) Instructions for citizens and officers. Comments are not part of this law. Citizens and officials can use the comments for guidelines.

Part (I): General instructions for all citizens

(1) Every voter will receive a Dhanvapsi passbook within 30 days of the publication of this statute.

(2) After this law is published in the gadget, 65% of the amount received from the mineral royalties, spectrum royalties to the government and rents of land acquired by the central government of India will be distributed equally among the citizens of India, and every month this money will be deposited directly into your bank account. The remaining 35% will be used only to improve the military. When you receive the amount, its entry will come in the Dhanvapsi book.

(3) This law does not make any promise that you will get Rs 500 or Rs 1000 or any fixed amount per month. If the market value of minerals / spectrum or land increases, then income and rent can increase. But if the mineral income and rent decrease, then the amount received by the citizens every month will also decrease.

(4) The National Mineral Officer (NMRO = National Mineral Royalty Officer) will have the necessary staff and authority to fix, collect and deposit mineral royalties and rent of government lands and bank accounts of all citizens. The NMRO will be appointed by the prime Minister, but if you are not getting this money on time or for any other reason you want to take NMRO out of the job to someone else, then you will be able to register your acceptance by going to Collector’s office with Dhanvapsi Passbook. . You will also be able to give your approval through SMS, ATM or mobile app.

(5) You can cancel your approval on any day by going to the Collector’s office, and you can approve any other candidate of National Mineral Officer on any day. When you register yes to a candidate or cancel your acceptance, Collector will make its entry in your Dhanvapsi Passbook.

(6) After the passing of this law, if the National Mineral Officer or his staff commits any misappropriation, corruption or any other complaint in any other matter and if your name is in the voter list, then you can be called for jury duty. In Jury Duty, you will have to listen to the argument by looking at the facts, evidence etc. presented by the accused, the victim, the witnesses and the lawyers of both the sides and give the verdict of punishment / fine or release.

(7) National Mineral Officer will conduct open auction of all mines, spectrum, government land all over India. He will prepare the outline of the lands owned by the central government and will also decide the length of the lease on all these lands. But the Mineral Officer will not have any rights over water resources.

(8) The National Mineral Officer will collect royalties and rent every month from every person or company with mining, spectrum, government land etc. on lease and deposit the collected amount in the bank accounts of all adult citizens of India every month. All citizens will get almost equal amount, but this amount may be less depending on the age of the person, number of his son or daughters, disability etc. The distribution ratio is given in the following sections.

(9) In some cases, citizens residing in a state may get an additional amount from their state's minerals and land, but this amount will not be more than twice the amount that all citizens of the country are receiving. And in areas that are bordered by enemy countries or citizens residing in remote areas, they can get extra money from the amount to be distributed. But except for the above exceptions, all other citizens will get an equal share. 

(10) This law will only apply to mines, spectrum and lands under the Central Government. But water resources under the Central Government will remain outside the purview of this law. This law will also not apply to the mines and lands under the authority of the state, municipalities, districts, tehsils, gram panchayats. The Chief Minister, the Mayor and the Sarpanch can implement the same law to distribute the proceeds from the minerals and lands owned by their state / city / district / tehsil / village to the citizens of their state / city / district / tehsil / village. , Or they do not need to do so. This law will not apply to the amount received from water or water distribution.

Part (II): Instructions for citizens and officers

(11) Declaration of Citizens' Ownership on National Properties: Citizens of India include all the mines of the country, spectrum, all the IIM's terrains including IIM Ahmedabad, JNU's landmasses, all UGC-funded universities and colleges owned by private companies or The trustees do not have the property to declare the land jointly and equally owned by Indian citizens. Henceforth this land is not the property of the State Government of India or the Central Government of India or any other government party or private party. 

(12) All officers of India, Prime Minister, High Court and Supreme Court Judges are requested not to accept any petition against the above decision of the citizens of India.

(12.1) All the land blocks of the following ministries and departments will come under the jurisdiction of the National Mineral Officer:
01. IIMs, except educational institutions of science, medicine, mathematics and engineering, funded by UGC. All universities and colleges.
02. All the buildings owned by the airport, Air India and Indian Airlines.
03. Ministry of Tourism and Culture
04. Ministry of Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution
05. Ministry of Information Technology
06. Ministry of Small Scale Industries and Agriculture and Village Industries
07. Ministry of Textiles
08. Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports
09. NITI Aayog
10. Ministry of Information and Broadcasting
11. Ministry of Human Resource Development
12. Ministry of Rural Development
13. Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment
14. Ministry of Urban Development and Poverty Alleviation
15. National Human Rights Commission
(12.2) This law prohibits the sale of all mines and government land in the country.
(12.3) The National Mineral Royalty Officer shall have no authority over the landmasses owned by private individuals, companies, trusts, state governments and city / district governments. The plots used by the army, courts, jails, railways, bus stations, government schools up to class 12 and tax collection offices will also be outside the jurisdiction of the Mineral Officer.
(12.4) All medical colleges, IITs, NITs, engineering colleges, IISC, science and mathematics colleges will be made part of the Ministry of Health or Ministry of Defense or Ministry of Science as the Prime Minister decides. The concerned minister will appoint the chairman for day-to-day operations in these colleges. All the colleges in which the teaching work of medical, science, mathematics and engineering are being done will not come under the jurisdiction of the Mineral Officer.

(13) Collection of fares from the plot owned by the Government of India

(13.1) For unused land - The mineral royalty officer shall at his discretion divide a land into land-blocks of appropriate measure, and conduct an auction for each plot. The following conditions will be up for auction:

(13.1.1) The lease will be for 5, 10, 15, 20 or 25 years. The mineral royalty officer will decide any of these periods. But the lease will not exceed 25 years.
(13.1.2) Bidders will make bids for monthly rent and lease period which may be less than the maximum lease term. The format of the bid will be according to the monthly rental and lease month. One person can bid more than one. The minimum lease period will be 12 months.
(13.1.3) The burden of tender (monthly rent) / log (monthly lease) will be as per. That is, the higher the rent, the higher the load and the longer the lease, the lower the load.
(13.1.4) Tenders will be fully transparent and public, and all tenders will be visible to all.
(13.1.5) The Mineral Officer will give the plot according to the weight of the tenders. (Monthly_fare) / log (monthly lease)
(13.1.6) The Mineral Royalty Officer will charge 6 months rent or similar amount as deposit.
(13.1.7) Any tenant shall be free to vacate the land on any day and to close the rent being paid.
(13.2) Percentage of the change in the value of land in the 1 sq km area around the land plot leased during the lease period, the date on which the lease has been revised, and The mineral royalty officer will revise the rent every 3 years based on the percentage change in the prevailing effective interest rate.
(13.3) After the end of the lease period, the mineral royalty officer will conduct a new auction, in which the existing lease holder will get the following additional benefits:
(13.3.1) His tender weight will be multiplied from 1.1 to 1.5, depending on how many years he has paid the rent.
(13.3.2) After the auction ends he can raise his bid within 3 months.
(13.3.3) Of the 6 months advance rent paid by the new lease holder, the existing lease holder will get an amount ranging from 20% to 50% depending on how many months the existing lease holder had held the land.
(13.3.4) But if the current lease holder misses the auction, then he can remove or sell his property from that land. But he must vacate this land.
(13.4) If the existing lease holder bids on the lease plot, he will receive a bonus of up to 50% with a maximum of 25% (25% * in lease months / 300). That is, the weight of his bid will increase by multiplying by 1.25 to 1.50. But it will not be more than this.
(13.5) If a plot is on lease, the Mineral Officer will determine the price of the plot by taking the mean of the sale price of the land sold in the last 3 years in the 1 km area around the plot, and next. For 10 years (Market Value Price * prevailing interest rate / 3) will determine the annual rental. The fare will be revised every 3 years. After 10 years, the rules mentioned in Section 13.1 will apply to such a plot.
(13.6) Mineral royalty officers will give 35% of the fare collected to provide arms to the Defense Minister for strengthening the army and to provide training to all the citizens in wielding weapons.
(14) Allotment of rent and mineral royalties from the land segment to citizens.
(14.1) The mineral royalty officer will send 35% of the collected rent every month to the citizens who have been living in the state for the last 10 years. But this amount will not be more than double the amount received by the citizens of India in the previous year. The mineral royalty officer will send the remaining rent to the citizens of India every month.

(14.2) The rent received by citizens after 1 year of the passing of this law will change as follows:
(14.2.1) If he has (0 son), (0 son, 1 daughter), (0 son, 2 daughter), then the fare will be 33% more and if he is 60 years of age, the fare will be 66% more.
(14.2.2) if he (1 son, daughter, 0), (one son, one daughter), (1 son, 2 daughters), the fare will be 15% higher and his age 60 year lease 33% more.
(14.2.3) If he has (2 sons, 0 daughters), (2 sons, 1 daughter), there will be no change in fare - neither will increase or decrease.
(14.2.4) If he has (2 sons, 2 daughters) or (3 sons, 1 daughter), the fare will be 33% less.
(14.2.5) If it has more than 4 children, the fare will be 66% less.
(14.2.6) Here, twins will be counted as one child and adopted children will not count.
(14.3) The fare for men above 60 years and women above 55 years will be 33% more and the fare for men above 75 years and women above 70 years will be 66% more.
(14.4) Children under 7 years of age will not receive any rent. The fare for children between 7 years and 14 years will be one third (33%) of normal fare and the fare for children between 14 years and 18 years will be two thirds (66%) of normal fare. Rent to be paid to a child under 14 years of age shall be paid to his / her mother, unless the jury orders the mineral royalty officer to pay the child's father or any other relative or if the mother is not alive.
(14.5) Further, if the jury finds that the husband is not taking good care of one or more children, the jury may direct the mineral officer to pay half of the rent paid to the father to the mother. In this case, the mineral royalty officer will give half part to mother and half to father.
(15) Collection of mineral royalties
(15.1) The Mineral Royalty Officer shall re-evaluate the lease price of all the leased mining mines leased before and after 1947 at market rate to decide whether the royalty amount of such working mine should be increased or not. NMRO will also get income from all other mines of the country, crude oil wells etc.
(15.2) The mineral royalty, the mineral royalty officer receives and this revenue will be shared among the army, in the states and the citizens of India in the same proportion as described in the sections relating to land rent distribution.
(16) Jury disposal of complaints of mineral royalty officer and his staff

(16.1) The mineral royalty officer shall appoint a district jury administrator for each district, a state jury administrator for each state and a national jury administrator for India.

Comment: District, state and national jury administrators will be within the scope of the Dhanvapsi passbook and using the "Vote Vapsi" section given in this passbook, the voter gives his approval to bring any of the above officers out of the job and bring in another person Will be able to Its procedures are given in section 19 of this law.

(16.2) The District Jury Administrator will appoint a 30-member Grand Mandal from the district's electoral roll. Out of these, 10 members will retire every 10 days and the new 10 members will be selected from the voter list by lottery. This grand Mandal will continue to work. Grand member will get Rs. 500 per attendance and travel expenses.
(16.3.1) The complaint will be lodged in the district where the property is located or the citizen resides. If citizens or lease holders or officers want to transfer the case to another district located in the same state, they can obtain an order from the state jury administrator or the state high court. If the parties want to transfer the case out of state, they can obtain an order from the National Jury Administrator or the Supreme Court.
(16.3.2) For each dispute in the district, the District Jury Administrator shall select (randomly) 3 to 10 graduates in mathematics, science or engineering from the lottery, from a prepared list of graduates to assist in the case. The selected engineers should be between 30 years to 55 years old and have 5 years of work experience. 
(16.3.3) The District Jury Administrator shall elect the voters aged between 30 and 55 years who have neither appeared in a jury in the last 5 years and have not previously been convicted of any crime by lottery from the voter list of the district. Be found.
(16.3.4) The number of jurors will start from minimum 12 to 50, 200, 500 and maximum to 1500. The size of the jury will depend on the position and status of the accused employee.
(16.3.5) If the amount of the dispute is less than 10 lakhs, the jury size will be 12, and one jury member will be increased for every 10 lakhs.
(16.3.6) If the complaint includes a complaint against an officer with an amount, the size of the jury will be determined according to point (4) or (5) above, whichever is higher.
(16.3.7) Jury members shall be selected from the districts where the district courts are connected to the district court hearing through videoconferencing. If such district is not connected to any other district through video conferencing, all the jury members will be from the district where the case has been registered.
(16.3.8) Jury members will listen to both parties for 1–1 hours. The hearing will end after more than 65% of the jury members say they have heard enough.
(16.3.9) If 75% or more of the jurors decide to expel the accused employee or fine, the mineral royalty officer may expel or recover the rent from such employee, or the royalty officer is required to do so. Is not. If the complainant feels that the royalty officer has not complied with the decision of the jurors properly, then he can demand from the voters of India to agree to expel him by using the vote back procedure given in section 20. 
(16.3.10) The decision of the jurors of the district court may be appealed to the jury or judges of the State High Court and subsequently to the jurors or judges of the Supreme Court.
(17) Royalty Officer and Jury Administrator's qualifications to apply
(17.1) For National Mineral Royalty Officer and National Jury Administrator: Any citizen of India who is more than 35 years of age can apply for the post of National Mineral Royalty Officer or National Jury Administrator.
(17.2) For Jury Administrator: Any citizen of India who is more than 30 years of age can apply for the post of District and State Jury Administrator.
(18) If any citizen of the qualification given in Section 17 submits an affidavit to the District Collector Office either himself or through a lawyer, then the District Collector will be eligible for the post of eligible post by taking a fee equal to the amount to be deposited in the election of MP. He will accept his application and scan the affidavit on the Prime Minister's website.
(19) Voter registering yes to support candidates
(19.1) Any citizen can go to the Collector’ office with his Dhanvapsi passbook on any day and register yes in support of the candidates of National Mineral Royalty Officer, District Jury Administrator, State and National Jury Administrator. Collector will enter voter's yes in his computer and Dhanvapsi passbook. Collector will put voters' yes along with the names of the candidates and the voter's ID number on the district's website. A voter can accept a maximum of 5 persons of his choice from among candidates for a post.
(19.2) The voter will pay 3 rupees fee for registering acceptance (yes). The fee for BPL card holder will be 1 rupee.
(19.3) If a voter comes to cancel his acceptance, Collector will cancel one or more names without any fee.
(19.4) On the 5th of each month, the Collector will publish a count of the approvals received by each candidate in the previous month. Collector will perform this demonstration of the approvals of his region every Monday. The approval of the National Mineral Officer and National Jury Administrator will also be demonstrated by the Cabinet Secretary on the 5th.
Comment: Collectors can create such a system that voters can register their yes through SMS, ATM, mobile app
Range voting - The Prime Minister or the Chief Minister can create such a system that the voter can score between 100 and 100 marks to a candidate. If the voter only registers yes, it will be considered equal to 100 digits. If the voter does not enter your approval it will be treated as zero points. But If the voter issue then will be valid points by then. This range voting procedure is superior to the acceptance system, and provides immunity from Arrow's Useless Impossibility Theorem.
(20) Appointment and removal of National Mineral Officer and Jury Administrator –
(20.1) For National Mineral Royalty Officer and National Jury Administrator: If a candidate receives more than 35% of the approval of all the voters (all voters, not only those who have registered acceptance) in the voter list of the country. , And if these approvals are even 1% higher than the official, then the Prime Minister can remove the current officer and appoint the candidate with the highest approval to the relevant post Or you can resign. The final decision regarding appointment will be made by the Prime Minister.

(20.2) For the State Jury Administrator: If more than 35% of all the voters in the state's voter list register yes in favor of a candidate and if this number of approvals is even 1% more than the incumbent, then the National mineral royalty officer may appoint such person to the post of state jury administrator.
(20.3) For District Jury Administrator: If more than 35% of all the voters in the voter list of the district register yes in favor of a candidate and if this number is also 1% more than the incumbent, then National Mineral Royalty Officers may appoint such person to the post of District Jury Administrator.
(21) Public voice
(21.1) If a voter wants any change in this law, he can submit an affidavit to the Collector Office. The District Collector will keep the affidavit scanned on the Prime Minister's website along with voter ID number of the voter at the rate of Rs 20 per page.
(21.2) If a voter wishes to register his support on an affidavit submitted under Section 21.1, he can register his Yes / No at Collector office by paying a fee of Rs. Collector will enter it and yes / no to voter ID Will put it on the Prime Minister's website with the number. 

Comment: 4 years after the enactment of the law, if there is a positive and decisive change in the system, then any citizen can submit an affidavit under section 21 of this law, in which those workers are given a reasonable reward as a consolation. There will be a proposal, who have made efforts to implement this law. If a worker is not alive then the reward will be given to his / her nominee. This consideration can be in any form of memento / citation etc. If 51% of the citizens of the state register yes on this affidavit, then the Prime Minister / Chief Minister can issue orders to implement them, or not. 

License: Anyone can freely print, distribute & circulate this document without any modification. Modification in this doc is not Permissible - Rahul Chimanbhai Mehta & Pawan Kumar Sharma

<DraftEnd>

Action: What can you do to get this law published in the gadget?

(1) Please demand this law by writing a postcard to the address of "Prime Minister's Office, Delhi". Write this in the postcard: Prime Minister, please imprint the proposed Dhanvapsi passbook law in Gazette - #DhanVapsiPassbook, # P20180436101
(2) Write the above-mentioned speech on the same side as the address. Get a photo copy of the postcard before sending the postcard. Inland letter can also be sent if you are not getting a postcard.
(3) Make a register from the Prime Minister with my name. Before putting it in the letter box, paste the photo copy of the postcard that you have made on your register page. Then whenever you send a letter of any demand to the PM, then keep copying the photo copy on the pages of the register. In this way, you will have a record of the letters sent to you.
(4) You can send this letter any day. But the authors of this law draft believe that all citizens should send this letter on a fixed date of the month and only at a fixed time.
Why only on the fixed date and time?
(4.1) If the letters are sent on the same day, it will have a greater impact, and the Prime Minister's Office will also be able to count them. Since Civil Duty Day falls on the 5th, so the 5th of the month has been fixed for sending letters to all the cities across the country. So if you send the letter, then send it on the 5th.
(4.2) 5 o'clock in the evening so that the staff of the post office does not face any additional trouble. Usually between 3 to 5 o'clock letter boxes are emptied, now suppose if 100-200 citizens from a city put a letter, then they will get the letter box empty, otherwise the filled letter box will not get so many letters from which the post office And citizens will be inconvenienced. And after this, the post man can clear the post box at 6 o'clock, because soon they will know that the responsible citizens sending instructions to the PM send letters between 5-6. This will not cost them extra time to lay off them. So, if you send this letter, please put it in the letter box between 5 pm and 6 pm. If you are unable to send the letter on the 5th, then send it on the 5th of the following month.
(4.3) You can put this letter in any letter box, but in our opinion it should be put in the box of the head post office of the city or town as much as possible. Because the letter box of the head post office is relatively large, and the postmen do not have to travel much distance to get the letters out of there.
(5) If you are on Facebook, then create an album from the Prime Minister with my name and put the photo of the page pasted on the register in this album.
(6) If you are on Twitter, tweet this to the Prime Minister with the photo of the register page: @Pmoindia, please print this law in the gadget - #DhanVapsiPassbook, # P20180436101
(7) Citizens who send letters to PM, if they want to have a meeting for mutual communication, then they can have a meeting at the local level on the second Sunday of the month, ie on the second Sunday at 10 am. The meeting should always be held in a public place. For this, you can choose a temple or railway-bus station premises etc. In addition to the 2nd Sunday, workers can hold meetings in private places, but the meeting on the second Sunday of the month will be held in the public place only. The time of this public meeting will also be irreversible.
(8) This is a decentralized mass movement inspired by non-violence idol Mahatma Udham Singh ji. (21) This draft of streams is the leader of this movement. If you also want to increase this demand then do whatever you can at your level. This copy is a left form, and you can print this booklet at your level and distribute it among the citizens.
The activists of this movement often avoid such steps like picketing, demonstrations, jam, mazme, procession, which cause problems for citizens and loss of time and labor-money. Citizens can send any of their demands to Pm by sending a letter by writing their demand clearly. Citizens need neither a leader nor media for this.
